Commercial Bank - Leveraged Finance Credit Risk, Associate

As part of Risk Management and Compliance, you are at the center of keeping JPMorgan Chase strong and resilient. You help the firm grow its business in a responsible way by anticipating new and emerging risks, and using your expert judgement to solve real-world challenges that impact our company, customers and communities. Our culture in Risk Management and Compliance is all about thinking outside the box, challenging the status quo and striving to be best-in-class.

As a Credit Risk Underwriter (Associate) in the Corporate Client Banking & Specialized Industries Technology group, you will be responsible for partnering with Senior Underwriters who, together, are the primary credit risk managers for Technology clients and transactions. The Credit Risk Associate works in partnership with Senior Underwriters, banking, syndications, and other product partners to analyze, structure, risk grade, document, and approve credit exposures resulting from loans and other commercial banking products. The Credit Risk Associate will be an instrumental member of the Risk Management team that will move forward the deal documentation and execution and is also responsible for the ongoing monitoring and risk management of an assigned portfolio of credits. The Credit Risk Associate is required to develop a broad and deep understanding of the business, financial and industry risks faced by customers in his/her assigned portfolio.

Job Responsibilities

Risk Assessment: The Credit Risk Associate will evaluate key risk factors related to a specific transaction, and develop a well-informed and balanced view of the business, financial and industry risks faced by a company, sector, and industry. He/she will formulate financial models that incorporate the impact of his/her forward-looking risk assessment on key value drivers, and work with Senior Underwriters to develop and recommend appropriate credit structures relative to the risk assessment. Coordinate with bankers and loan operations across tight closing deadlines to ensure all credit related documentation is finalized and delivered.
Support the Credit Approval Process: The Credit Risk Associate will work with Senior Underwriters to ensure all credit exposures are approved at the appropriate level. He/she will prepare credit approval write-ups, present and recommend credits for approval at the appropriate level; analyze covenants and other key terms as part of the deal team; and review legal documentation to ensure terms are appropriate and consistent with credit approval.
On-going Portfolio Management: The Credit Risk Associate is responsible for the continuous risk assessment of each customer in his/her assigned portfolio. He/she will ensure risk ratings are accurate and reflect current forward-looking view of the customer, including early identification of deteriorating credits, identify and communicate material changes in credit performance and outlook, and evaluate and distribute client financial and compliance reporting (borrowing bases, financial statements, etc.).

Required Qualifications, Capabilities, And Skills

Outstanding organizational and project management skills to balance portfolio management and deal execution responsibilities
Excellent verbal and written communication skills
Demonstrated interpersonal skills to collaborate with teammates, bankers, product partners, senior management, and clients
Strong work ethic with an ability to meet deadlines while multi-tasking
Excellent Excel, PowerPoint, and financial modeling skills
BA/BS degree required
Typically 3-5 years of Commercial / Corporate banking/lending experience including credit, structuring and marketing experience

Preferred Qualifications, Capabilities, And Skills

Strong credit, documentation, and transaction experience
Completion of a major corporate bank credit/analyst training program or equivalent experience
Technology industry experience a plus
Knowledge of credit, JPMC, and similar bank policies

JPMorgan Chase & Co., one of the oldest financial institutions, offers innovative financial solutions to millions of consumers, small businesses and many of the world's most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands. Our history spans over 200 years and today we are a leader in investment banking, consumer and small business banking, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management.

We recognize that our people are our strength and the diverse talents they bring to our global workforce are directly linked to our success. We are an equal opportunity employer and place a high value on diversity and inclusion at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of any protected attribute, including race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, marital or veteran status, pregnancy or disability, or any other basis protected under applicable law. In accordance with applicable law, we make reasonable accommodations for applicants' and employees' religious practices and beliefs, as well as any mental health or physical disability needs.

The health and safety of our colleagues, candidates, clients and communities has been a top priority in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. JPMorgan Chase was awarded the "WELL Health-Safety Rating" for all of our 6,200 locations globally based on our operational policies, maintenance protocols, stakeholder engagement and emergency plans to address a post-COVID-19 environment.

As a part of our commitment to health and safety, we have implemented various COVID-related health and safety requirements for our workforce. Employees are expected to follow the Firm's current COVID-19 or other infectious disease health and safety requirements, including local requirements. Requirements include sharing information including your vaccine card in the firm's vaccine record tool, and may include mask wearing. Requirements may change in the future with the evolving public health landscape. JPMorgan Chase will consider accommodation requests as required by applicable law.

We offer a competitive total rewards package including base salary determined based on the role, experience, skill set, and location. For those in eligible roles, discretionary incentive compensation which may be awarded in recognition of individual achievements and contributions. We also offer a range of benefits and programs to meet employee needs, based on eligibility. These benefits include comprehensive health care coverage, on-site health and wellness centers, a retirement savings plan, backup childcare, tuition reimbursement, mental health support, financial coaching and more. Additional details about total compensation and benefits will be provided during the hiring process.

Equal Opportunity Employer/Disability/Veterans

Base Pay/Salary

San Francisco,CA $85,500.00 - $145,000.00 / year